blog on customizing istio coredns domain names (#7208)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2020/custom-istio-dns-name/index.md

---

> title: "Customizing Istio DNS stub names"

Reviewer: the header (title, subtitle, description) I believe are not checked for spelling errors. Run `make lint` to verify.

Author: Im not sure what you're suggesting? Did it fail `make lint`?

Reviewer: A bunch of words were added to the `.spelling`, possibly because you thought they would be caught up in the header spell checking. This is not needed. I will provide further guidance for the `.spelling` file above.

Reviewer: I had noticed a bunch of words added to `.spelling`. I believe you may have taken this action to handle spelling errors in the header. I was just indicating the header is not spell-checked and requires extra attention from other reviewers for spelling errors.

Cheers
-steve

subtitle: Changing or adding stub domains to make ServiceEntry hostnames routable
description: Customizing global or region hostnames as declared in ServiceEntry(s) for routability.
publishdate: 2020-05-05
attribution: "Christian Posta (Solo.io)"
keywords: [istio, dns, mTLS, coredns]
---

> Istio can be run across multiple clusters and has the necessary configuration APIs to support [shared control plane](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/shared/) or a non-shared, [replicated control model](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways). The motivation for deploying across multiple clusters has been covered excellently by fellow Istio contributor [Vadim Eisenberg](https://twitter.com/vadimeisenberg) in the [Multi-Mesh Deployments for Isolation and Boundary Protection](/blog/2019/isolated-clusters/) blog.

Reviewer: Anything in `[]` I believe is not spell checked.

You will see an overall theme in this review - we wish to bound the `.spelling` file changes.

Author: Yep, will remove from `.spelling`

> Istio can be run across multiple clusters and has the necessary configuration APIs to support [shared control plane](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/shared/) or a non-shared, [replicated control model](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways). The motivation for deploying across multiple clusters has been covered excellently by fellow Istio contributor [Vadim Eisenberg](https://twitter.com/vadimeisenberg) in the [Multi-Mesh Deployments for Isolation and Boundary Protection](/blog/2019/isolated-clusters/) blog.

Reviewer: @elysdir your change SGTM.

> One aspect of multi-cluster functionality enabling services to communicate with each other is service discovery. In an Istio replicated control-plane multi-cluster setup, you create [ServiceEntry](/docs/reference/config/networking/service-entry/)s in one cluster to point to services running in another cluster. For example:

Reviewer: control plane has no dash.

Reviewer: `you create [Service Entry](link) custom resources in one cluster to reference services running in another cluster.`

Author: > control plane has no dash.

Control plane should have a hyphen when it describes "setup" a noun and is linked ...(https://www.grammarbook.com/punctuation/hyphens.asp) Unless this is some convention used purposefully throughout the docs?

Reviewer: Istio uses this style guide, which I quite like: https://developers.google.com/style/hyphens. I think it well-represents the expectations of the technical writer community. My writing is not pro enough to be considered such a member, but I try :)

Reviewer 2: > `you create [Service Entry](link) custom resources in one cluster to reference services running in another cluster.`

Agreed. In particular, it's best to avoid making a keyword into a plural; for more on that, see (https://developers.google.com/style/code-in-text#keywords).

> One aspect of multi-cluster functionality enabling services to communicate with each other is service discovery. In an Istio replicated control-plane multi-cluster setup, you create [ServiceEntry](/docs/reference/config/networking/service-entry/)s in one cluster to point to services running in another cluster. For example:

Reviewer 2: I found the first sentence of this paragraph to be a little bit hard to follow, partly because of the sentence structure and partly because it relies so heavily on multi-syllable words. The sentence is perfectly grammatical, but I wonder if you could make it a little easier to read, maybe by changing it to something like this:

"Multi-cluster Istio lets services communicate with each other, which lets services discover each other."

Or maybe the end of that sentence should be something like "...which allows for service discovery"? I suppose "which enables service discovery" would also be OK in this context.

We usually mildly recommend against using "functionality" and "enable" in this sort of context:

https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#functionality

https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#enable

Those words aren't a big problem, but they do sometimes make docs a little harder to read.

But in this case, "enables" might end up being the best compromise between being brief and being accurate.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply --context=$CTX_CLUSTER1 -n foo -f - <<EOF
    apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
    kind: ServiceEntry
    metadata:
      name: httpbin-bar
    spec:
      hosts:
      # must be of form name.namespace.global
      - httpbin.bar.global
      # Treat remote cluster services as part of the service mesh
      # as all clusters in the service mesh share the same root of trust.
      location: MESH_INTERNAL
      ports:
      - name: http1
        number: 8000
        protocol: http
      resolution: DNS
      addresses:
      - 240.0.0.2
      endpoints:
      - address: ${CLUSTER2_GW_ADDR}
        ports:
          http1: 15443 # Do not change this port value
    EOF
    {{< /text >}}

> This `ServiceEntry` creates an entry in the Istio service-discovery registry for `httpbin.bar.global` with endpoints that point to a different cluster's gateway. Without any other configuration changes, this hostname, `httpbin.bar.global` is not routable. In the docs for setting up multi-cluster replicated control plane, however, there is a [section for configuring the DNS stubbing](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways/#setup-dns) for your Kubernetes cluster. When we set up the DNS stubbing, we tell `kube-dns` to delegate queries for `.global` to the Istio coredns component.

Reviewer: point to a -> direct traffic to

Reviewer: we->you

> This `ServiceEntry` creates an entry in the Istio service-discovery registry for `httpbin.bar.global` with endpoints that point to a different cluster's gateway. Without any other configuration changes, this hostname, `httpbin.bar.global` is not routable. In the docs for setting up multi-cluster replicated control plane, however, there is a [section for configuring the DNS stubbing](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways/#setup-dns) for your Kubernetes cluster. When we set up the DNS stubbing, we tell `kube-dns` to delegate queries for `.global` to the Istio coredns component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This `ServiceEntry` creates an entry for `httpbin.bar.global` in the Istio service-discovery registry. The new entry's endpoints direct traffic to a different cluster's gateway. Without any other configuration changes, this hostname, `httpbin.bar.global`, is not routable. To make it routable, follow the instructions about [configuring the DNS stubbing](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways/#setup-dns) for your Kubernetes cluster. When you set up the DNS stubbing, you tell `kube-dns` to delegate queries for `.global` to the Istio `coredns` component.
```

My proposed revision here is meant to simplify the paragraph, but I may have gone too far and changed the meaning; please ignore or change anything that I got wrong here. My main idea here is to focus on what the reader should do rather than on where the documentation that you're directing them to lives.

(I do like the idea of saying where the docs are, but I think in this particular sentence, it distracts a little bit from the focus of the paragraph. But I may be wrong.)

> But what if you don't want to use `.global` as the suffix? What if you have to keep some backward compatibility and the root domain name needs to be something custom? Or what if you want to be able to support multiple root domain suffixes? In the open-source project [Service Mesh Hub](https://github.com/solo-io/service-mesh-hub) that I work on, we had this exact scenario. Service Mesh Hub is used to [automate multi-cluster Istio service mesh deployments](https://docs.solo.io/service-mesh-hub/latest/getting_started/), and routing between clusters is a use case our users have. Here's how to configure it in Istio.

Reviewer: Hypothetical questions are unorthodox, especially for blog posts that are under TOC management. Can you reword into a statemtent with an action?

Author: I can.

> But what if you don't want to use `.global` as the suffix? What if you have to keep some backward compatibility and the root domain name needs to be something custom? Or what if you want to be able to support multiple root domain suffixes? In the open-source project [Service Mesh Hub](https://github.com/solo-io/service-mesh-hub) that I work on, we had this exact scenario. Service Mesh Hub is used to [automate multi-cluster Istio service mesh deployments](https://docs.solo.io/service-mesh-hub/latest/getting_started/), and routing between clusters is a use case our users have. Here's how to configure it in Istio.

Reviewer 2: Suggested minor changes to the second half of the paragraph:

```suggestion
But what if you don't want to use `.global` as the suffix? What if you have to keep some backward compatibility and the root domain name needs to be something custom? Or what if you want to be able to support multiple root domain suffixes? In the open source project that I work on, [Service Mesh Hub](https://github.com/solo-io/service-mesh-hub), we had this exact scenario. Service Mesh Hub is used to [automate multi-cluster Istio service mesh deployments](https://docs.solo.io/service-mesh-hub/latest/getting_started/), and our users need to route between clusters. The rest of this post explains how to configure routing between clusters in Istio.
```

(The reason I'm removing the hyphen from "open source" is this style guide entry: (https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#open-source).)

## Istio CoreDNS

> Istio's operator allows you to deploy the Istio `coredns` addon component.  For example, you can specify the following in the operator config:

Reviewer 2: Change "addon" to "add-on". (https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#add-on)

> Istio's operator allows you to deploy the Istio `coredns` addon component.  For example, you can specify the following in the operator config:

Reviewer 2: We editors have just been discussing adding the word "config" to our style guide. In general, I think it should either be spelled out as "configuration" or put in code font if it's referring to an entity named `config`. It looks like most of the Istio docs spell it out as "configuration", but I may be misunderstanding.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
metadata:
  name: istiocontrolplane-default
  namespace: istio-operator
spec:
  addonComponents:
    istiocoredns:
      enabled: true
{{< /text >}}

> When this deploys, we have the `istiocoredns` component that has `coredns` installed as well as the `istio-coredns-plugin` which is used to read `ServiceEntry`s and serve DNS queries for their hostname with IP addresses. The interesting bit is how it's configured out of the box. The default out of the box config is in the `coredns` configmap:

Reviewer: to read `ServiceEntry` custom resources

Author: I can change this throughout.

> When this deploys, we have the `istiocoredns` component that has `coredns` installed as well as the `istio-coredns-plugin` which is used to read `ServiceEntry`s and serve DNS queries for their hostname with IP addresses. The interesting bit is how it's configured out of the box. The default out of the box config is in the `coredns` configmap:

Reviewer 2: Probably best to add a noun after "this" to clarify exactly what it is that's deploying. (https://developers.google.com/style/pronouns#ambiguous-pronoun-references)

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl get cm coredns -n istio-system
{{< /text >}}

Looking into that configmap, we see the following configuration for Istio's `coredns`:

{{< text json >}}
.:53 {
      errors
      health

      # Removed support for the proxy plugin: https://coredns.io/2019/03/03/coredns-1.4.0-release/
      grpc global 127.0.0.1:8053
      forward . /etc/resolv.conf {
        except global
      }

      prometheus :9153
      cache 30
      reload
    }
{{< /text >}}

> Understanding how [coredns plugins work](https://coredns.io/plugins/grpc/) is helpful here. We see with the `grpc` statement that we're forwarding `global` domains to `127.0.0.1:8053`, and we're forwarding everything else to `/etc/resolv.conf`. The `istio-coredns-plugin` plugin is another container co-deployed with the `coredns` server and is listening on that `127.0.0.1:8053` port within the pod. If we want to change or add domains that can resolve based on what `ServiceEntry`s are created, we need to modify this file.

Reviewer: change all references of we to first person.

Author: "we" is first person?

Reviewer: I had meant third person. Been a long day - even at 2pm 👍 Please reference this style guideline for followup questions : https://developers.google.com/style/pronouns

Reviewer 2: Yeah, best to avoid "we". In addition to the pronouns page that sdake pointed to, see also (https://developers.google.com/style/person).

For example, to add a `region` domain, we could do something like this:

{{< text yaml>}}
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: coredns
  namespace: istio-system
  labels:
    app: istiocoredns
    release: istio
data:
  Corefile: |
    region {
             grpc . 127.0.0.1:8053
          }
    .:53 {
          errors
          health
          grpc global 127.0.0.1:8053
          forward . /etc/resolv.conf {
            except global
          }
          prometheus :9153
          cache 30
          reload
        }
{{< /text >}}

> With this configuration of Istio's `coredns` component, we could have `ServiceEntry`s that have either hostnames of `foo.bar.region` or `foo.bar.global` resolvable by this DNS server.

Reviewer: this sentence needs to be reworded into the first person and the usage of ServiceEntry - throughout this blog post - needs to use `ServiceEntry` custom resource - preferably with a link to the SE documentation.

Author: Im not sure what you mean. "we" is first person. I can update to use ServiceEntry custom resource.

Reviewer: Right. Our docs use the `you` pronoun. I have always steered clear of the `you` pronoun in docs, however, after seeing this method in action in Istio, I understand why You is preferable to `We`.

Reviewer: https://developers.google.com/style/pronouns

> With this configuration of Istio's `coredns` component, we could have `ServiceEntry`s that have either hostnames of `foo.bar.region` or `foo.bar.global` resolvable by this DNS server.

Reviewer 2: I'm not quite sure what this phrase means:

"that have either hostnames of `foo.bar.region` or `foo.bar.global` resolvable by this DNS server."

I think that removing the word "either" would probably make it clearer. Give that a try, and then take another look and see whether it says what you intend it to say.

## Enable stubs for kube-dns

> The last step is to add this new `region` domain stub to the `kube-dns` entries. This is covered in the [replicated control-plane docs](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways/#setup-dns).

Reviewer 2: Consider changing "This is covered in" to something like "For instructions, see".

Reviewer: nice suggestion, I'll have to start using this!

## Next steps

> In this blog post we saw how to customize the domain name used in global service discovery and routing within Istio. There may be other usecases for customizing this DNS resolution behavior, so hopefully this is helpful for others. We encourage you to try out [Istio multi-cluster](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways).

Reviewer: can you use periods instead of commas in this sentence :)

Author: I can change it around if you feel the sentence reads too long.

Reviewer: https://developers.google.com/style/pronouns.

> In this blog post we saw how to customize the domain name used in global service discovery and routing within Istio. There may be other usecases for customizing this DNS resolution behavior, so hopefully this is helpful for others. We encourage you to try out [Istio multi-cluster](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This blog post explained how to customize the domain name used in global service discovery and routing within Istio. For more information about Istio multi-cluster deployment, see [Replicated control planes](/docs/setup/install/multicluster/gateways).
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think you need the line about there being other use cases, nor the "hopefully this is helpful for others" part. But if you do end up keeping those parts, then change "usecases" to "use cases".
